TOC.md, before:

---
title: Table of Contents
private: true
---

# [Product Updates](product-updates.md)
Check out the new SPDocKit version delights. See the changes in the latest version and upgrade. 
# [Requirements](requirements.md)
Make sure that your environment and the account used for the application meet SysKit SQL Manager's requirements.  
# [Quick Start Guide](quick-start-guide.md) 
Get going quickly.
# [Installation](installation.md)
Learn how to install SQL Manager or update it to the latest version. 
# [Activation](activation.md)
Activate your fully featured version and explore all the amazing reports.  
# [Get to know SysKit SQL Manager](get-to-know-sql-manager.md)
Dive into a detailed overview of what SysKit SQL Manager has to offer. Check out the available report types and feature sets. 
# [Security Management](security-management.md)
Add description here!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
# [How To](how-to.md) 
When you get stuck trying to make magic happen, these guides will tell you the secret.
# [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)
These are some of the most common questions and answers about SPDocKit. If you couldn't find the answer to your problem, please contact us.

Commit message:

change product name, add security management description

TOC.md, after:

---
title: Table of Contents
private: true
---

# [Product Updates](product-updates.md)
Check out the new SysKit SQL Manager version delights. See the changes in the latest version and upgrade. 
# [Requirements](requirements.md)
Make sure that your environment and the account used for the application meet SysKit SQL Manager's requirements.  
# [Quick Start Guide](quick-start-guide.md) 
Get going quickly.
# [Installation](installation.md)
Learn how to install SysKit SQL Manager or update it to the latest version. 
# [Activation](activation.md)
Activate your fully featured version and explore all the amazing reports.  
# [Get to know SysKit SQL Manager](get-to-know-sql-manager.md)
Dive into a detailed overview of what SysKit SQL Manager has to offer. Check out the available report types and feature sets. 
# [Security Management](security-management.md)
Take care of multiple server and database management tasks.
# [How To](how-to.md) 
When you get stuck trying to make magic happen, these guides will tell you the secret.
# [Troubleshooting](troubleshooting.md)
These are some of the most common questions and answers about SysKit SQL Manager. If you couldn't find the answer to your problem, please contact us.
