activation/online-activation.md, before:

---
title: Online Activation
description: This article outlines the steps to perform an online SysKit SQL Manager activation.
author: Tomislav Sirovec
date: 06/6/2017
---

### Server License
The server license is tied to the server on which it is installed. The license is per SQL Server and that means you can monitor all SQL Servers in your environment from a single server.

1. Navigate to the __Backstage Help Screen__ and click the __License Details__ section to begin the activation process.
2. When the Activation window pops up, select __Server or Site__.
3. Enter the company name and your product key.

The product key is a combination of letters and numbers. To claim your activation key, please log in to our [customers portal](https://customers.acceleratio.net). There you can track your orders and download the latest application versions to which you are entitled. When a major upgrade becomes available, all customers with valid software assurances will have their profiles refreshed with new version download links and brand-new activation keys.
Once you have entered the product key, it will be validated by our activation server. If your key is valid, a green check mark will appear next to it.

4. Click __Activate__ to begin the activation process.
The activation will be complete in a couple of seconds and it’s a one-time process.

### Site License

Site license is tied to a __domain name__ or __ServerID__, which means you can use it to monitor an unlimited number of SQL Servers.

1. Navigate to the __Backstage Help Screen Help__ and click the __License Details__ section to begin the activation process.
2. When the Activation window pops-up, select __Server or Site__.
3. Enter the company name and your product key.

The product key is a combination of letters and numbers. To claim your activation key, please log in to our [customers portal](https://customers.acceleratio.net). There you can track your orders and download the latest application versions to which you are entitled. When a major upgrade becomes available, all customers with valid software assurances will have their profiles refreshed with new version download links and brand-new activation keys. Once you have entered the product key, it will be validated by our activation server. If your key is valid, a green check mark will appear next to it.

4. Click __Activate__ to begin the activation process.
The activation will be completed in a couple of seconds. It is a one-time process.

### Consultant License

The consultant license can be activated on any server, and you can monitor an unlimited number of SQL Servers. However, you need to have a valid SysKit SQL Manager consultant subscription. Please note that consultant license is intended for external (customer server) usage only.

Here is how to activate a consultant license:

1. Navigate to the __Backstage Help Screen__ and click the __License Details__ section to begin the activation process.
2. When the Activation window pops up, select __Consultant__.
3. Enter your email address and password.

Provide the same email and password that you received during your online purchase. [Contact us](https://www.sqldockit.com/support/contact-us/) if you do not have the necessary activation information.
Select the __One-time activation__ check box for a short-term SysKit SQL Manager activation. When you finish using the application, the license details will be deleted and the product will no longer be active. This feature can be quite convenient when you are documenting your customers’ SQL Servers.

4. Click __Activate__ to begin the activation process. The activation lasts for a couple of seconds, and it needs to be repeated on every server on which you wish to activate SysKit SQL Manager. You can activate your license on an unlimited number of customer’s servers while your subscription is active.

> __Please note!__ The consultant license requires re-activation every 30 days. When your current consultant subscription expires, SysKit SQL Manager will warn you that re-activation is needed.

### Related Articles

* [SysKit SQL Manager Offline Activation](#internal/activation/offline-activation)
* [Licensing FAQs](#internal/activation/licensing-faqs)

Commit message:

change licenses order, update text

activation/online-activation.md, after:

---
title: Online Activation
description: This article outlines the steps to perform an online SysKit SQL Manager activation.
author: Tomislav Sirovec
date: 06/6/2017
---

### Server License
The server license is tied to the server on which it is installed. The license is per SQL Server and that means you can monitor all SQL Servers in your environment from a single server.

1. From the left navigation bar on the __Backstage Screen__ select __Help__ and click on the __License Details__ section to begin the activation process.
2. On the activation screen choose the __Server or Site__ option.
3. Fill in the __Company__ and __Product Key__ fields.

    The product key is a combination of letters and numbers. In order to claim your activation key, please log in to our [customers portal](https://customers.acceleratio.net). There you will be able to track your orders and download the latest application versions you are entitled to. When a major upgrade becomes available, all customers with a valid software assurance will have their profile refreshed with new version download link and a brand new activation key.

    Once you have entered the product key it will be validated against our activation server. If your key is valid, a green check mark will appear next to it.

4. Click the __Activate__ button to begin the activation process. Activation takes a couple of seconds and is a one time process.

### Consultant License

The Consultant license can be activated on any server, and you can monitor an unlimited number of SQL Servers. However, you need to have a valid SysKit SQL Manager consultant subscription. Please take special care that the Consultant license is intended for external (customers' environment) usage only. Here is how to activate a Consultant license online.

1. From the left navigation bar on the __Backstage Screen__, select Help and click on the __License Details__ section to begin the activation process.
2. On the activation screen choose the __Consultant__ option. Fill in the __Email__ and __Password__ fields.

    You need to use the same email and password that you received during your online purchase. [Contact us](https://www.sqldockit.com/support/contact-us/) if you do not have the necessary activation information.

    The __One-time activation__ option allows short-term activation of SysKit SQL Manager. If you check this box, the license details will be deleted and the license will be deactivated when the application is closed. This feature can be quite convenient when you are documenting your customer's environment.

3. Click __Activate__ to start the activation process. Activation takes a couple of seconds and it needs to be repeated on every server you choose to activate. You can activate your license on an unlimited number of customers' servers while your subscription is active.

> __Please note!__ The consultant license requires re-activation every 30 days. When your current consultant subscription expires, SysKit SQL Manager will warn you that re-activation is needed.

### Site License

Site license is tied to a __domain name__ or __ServerID__, which means you can use it to monitor an unlimited number of SQL Servers.

1. From the left navigation bar on the __Backstage Screen__ select __Help__ and click on the __License Details___ section to begin the activation process.
2. On the activation screen choose the __Server or Site__ option.
3. Fill in the __Company__ and __Product Key__ fields.

    The product key is a combination of letters and numbers. In order to claim your activation key, please log in to our  [customers portal](https://customers.acceleratio.net). There you will be able to track your orders and download the latest application versions that you are entitled to. When a major upgrade becomes available, all customers with a valid software assurance will have their profile refreshed with a new version download link and a brand new activation key.

    Once you have entered the product key, it will be validated by our activation server. If your key is valid, a green check mark will appear next to it.

4. Click __Activate__ to begin the activation process. Activation takes a couple of seconds and it is a one time process.

### Related Articles

* [SysKit SQL Manager Offline Activation](#internal/activation/offline-activation)
* [Licensing FAQs](#internal/activation/licensing-faqs)
